1. What are Russell and Norvig's circuit-based and inference-based agent types? How do they compare in 4 computational aspects? (5 mins)
circuit-based: 
    propositions bits in registers
    update through signal propagation in logical circuits
inference-based:
    inference algorithms
    keep track of the World
    deduce hidden properties 

    READ R&N

    4 aspects: conciseness, computational efficiency, completeness, ease of construction
        1.) conciseness - time is stored in memory in an inference based; in a circuit based agent only store present time so much more conciseness
            efficiency - circuit based better because less storage than massive inference (exponential lookup for inference)
            completeness - inference based is complete (circuit is not since it forgets previous moments)
            ease of construction - easier to construct inference-based

2.What are 3 example improvements of DPLL over TT-entails?(3 mins)

    1.) early termination - do not need to sign all truth value combos
    2.) pure symbol - (A v B) ^ (B v C) --> pure because B is same sign in all occurences
            can always assign true values to pure symbols because trying to prove whole world is true
    3.) unit clause - if you find a unit clause, e.g. (A), you can set it to be true

    these 3 save from exhaustive enumeration

    RESEARCH IN R&N

3.What is the logical link between a valid formula and an unsatisfiable formula? (1 min)
    P is valid iff ¬P is unsatisfiable


4.Translate the following statements into propositional logic. Be sure to give at the start the intended meaning of each proposition. (8mins)
(a) If there is smoke, then there is smoke. 
    S => S
(b) There is no smoke without fire. 
    S => F
(c) If it is true that there is no smoke without fire, then it is also true that if there is no smoke there is no fire.
    
(d) There is smoke or there is fire or there is no fire. 
(e) Saying that the presence of smoke and heat implies fire is equivalent to saying that either there is no smoke without fire or there is no heat without fire. 
    ((S ^ H) => F) <=> ((S => F) V (H => F))
(f) If there is no smoke without fire, then if there is smoke and heat there is fire. 

5.Unit propagation: 
    (i) Why does a unit clause need to be set to true when it occurs in DPLL?(1min)
        In order to give the statement a chance to be satisfiable
    (ii) What effect can setting a unit clause to true have on other clauses?(1min)
        it can make other clauses true or able to reduce

6. Under what conditions is a solution found by DPLL known to be unique?(1 min)
    trying all the imposed assignments and finding a solution from just one truth value
    

7.What is a tautology?(1 min)
    all results are always true
    truth by necessity
    virtue of logical form

8. Describe the 3 main steps in proving the following sentence is valid using boolean algebra, CNF,and resolution. Carry out the first step. (4 mins)
¬(¬Tall ∧ Heavy)=>(Tall ⋁ ¬Heavy)

1) negation (prove negation is unsatisfiable)
2) put it into CNF ("ors" in the clause and "ands" joining them)
3) resolve

9.Example Problem(17mins)
[Use the DPLL Detective Example Solution on StudRes.]
There are three suspects for being a murderer: Adams, Brown, and Clark. Adams says "I 
didn't do it. The victim was an old acquaintance of Brown's. But Clark hated him." 
Brown states "I didn't do it. I didn't know the guy. Besides I was out of town all the 
week." Clark says "I didn't do it. I saw Brown downtown with the victim that day; one of 
them (Adams or Brown) must have done it." Assume that the two innocent men are telling the truth,
but that the guilty man might not be. A logical agent detective might write out the relevant facts as sentences in 
Propositional Logic, and create a CNF ready for use by DPLL in the 3steps below to see if the crime can be solved." 
Explain the steps taken by the detective as per the questions below.

Step 1(6 mins)
Assign boolean variables to relevant propositions as follows
    a: “Adams is guilty"
    b: “Brown is guilty"
    c: “Clark is guilty"
    k: “Brown Knew the victim" 
    h: “Clark Hated the victim" 
    o: “Brown was Out of town”
The slides for the example express the essence of what each of the men says for detection purposes as a sentence in Propositional Logic using only the above boolean 
variables and the boolean operators. Why does the propositional logic in slide 5 represent that the guilty man may be lying?

    Adam -- ¬a ^ k ^ h
    Brown -- ¬b ^ ¬k ^ o
    Clark -- ¬c ^ ¬o ^ (a V b)

Step 2(4 mins)
How do the clauses in Formalisation (4) of the Detective Example (p6) combine together to
express the fact that one of the men is guilty?

    a V b V c 

    ¬(a ^ b)
    ¬(a ^ c)
    ¬(c ^ b)

Step 3(7 mins)
Convert the proposition associated with the fact that Brown may be lying from step 1
into CNF, taking care to eliminate tautologies and duplicates. Do this by 
    (i) creating a Boolean expression not in CNF, and then

        A => C = ¬A v C
        A = ¬b
        C = ¬b ^ ¬k ^ o

        b v (¬b ^ ¬k ^ o)

    (ii) using Boolean algebra to create a CNF expression.

10. The above associated slides then go on to show how DPLL uses the CNF to solve the crime.
Explain how the assigned Clauses and Simplified Clauses columns arise on p14 of the slides. (2mins)

11. Why is Wumpus World limited to about 100 x 100 squares in practice for inference-based propositional solvers? 
What limitations of propositional logic does this exemplify? (3 mins)

    Knowledge store would be way too huge (exponential growth)
    implies space limitations - look up limitations listed in R&N